Updates for Active Learning (P1) (#326)
cisco/mindmeld: source/walkthroughs/wt_active_learning.rst

Step-by-Step Guide to Active Learning with Log Data in MindMeld
===============================================================

> Active Learning is an approach to continuously and iteratively pick data that is most informative for the models to train on from a pool of unlabelled data-points. By picking such data-points, active learning provides a higher chance of improving the accuracy of the model with fewer training examples. It also greatly reduces the number of queries to be annotated by humans. MindMeld provides this inbuilt functionality to select these must-have queries from existing data or additional logs and datasets to get the best out of your conversational applications.

Reviewer: The American spelling is "labeled", also we should remove the hyphens in "data point": "pool of _unlabeled data points_" and "By picking such _data points_"

The following step-by-step guide will use the :doc:`HR Assistant <../blueprints/hr_assistant>` blueprint for showcasing MindMeld's active learning functionality and the different customizations involved.

Step 1: Setup a MindMeld App with Log Resources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The first step for running active learning is to set up your MindMeld app with log data configured for the app. This log data can either be in the form of labelled text files (similar to the train and test files in the app), or an unlabelled text file containing raw text queries across all domains and intents.

Reviewer: The American spelling is "labeled" and "unlabeled": "This log data can either be in the form of _labeled_ text files (similar to the train and test files in the app), or an _unlabeled_ text file"

> For the purpose of this tutorial, we will generate 'logs' for the current HR Assistant blueprint using the MindMeld :doc:`Data Augmentation <../userguide/augmentation>` pipeline. This means additional queries for the app to train on. After we have figured out the best hyperparameters using the tuning step, we'll select the best qureries from the data augmentation logs (files with the pattern ``train-augmented.txt``). Adding these queries to the train files of the assistant can improve performance of the classifers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the purpose of this tutorial, we will generate 'logs' for the current HR Assistant blueprint using the MindMeld :doc:`Data Augmentation <../userguide/augmentation>` pipeline. These paraphrases will serve as additional queries for the app to train on. After we have figured out the best hyperparameters using the tuning step, we'll select the best qureries from the data augmentation logs (files with the pattern ``train-augmented.txt``). Adding these queries to the train files of the assistant can improve performance of the classifiers.
```

> For the purpose of this tutorial, we will generate 'logs' for the current HR Assistant blueprint using the MindMeld :doc:`Data Augmentation <../userguide/augmentation>` pipeline. These paraphrases will serve as additional queries for the app to train on. After we have figured out the best hyperparameters using the tuning step, we'll select the best qureries from the data augmentation logs (files with the pattern ``train-augmented.txt``). Adding these queries to the train files of the assistant can improve performance of the classifiers.

Reviewer: "can improve _the_ performance of the classifiers"

Step 2: Define Active Learning Config
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section shows the customized active learning configuration setting in ``config.py`` for the HR Assistant app. A detailed description for each of the components can be found :ref:`here <al_config>`.

.. code-block:: python

    ACTIVE_LEARNING_CONFIG = {
        "output_folder": "hr_assistant_active_learning",
        "pre_tuning": {

>             "train_pattern": ".*train.txt",

Reviewer: Should the regex allow text after "train" and escape the period? ".*train.*\.txt"

Author: Generally, yes! The default configuration allows for text after train and escapes the period. The config mentioned in this file is specific to the blueprint app, and this regex helps differentiate between train and train-augmented files.

>             "test_pattern": ".*test.*.txt",

Reviewer: Escape the period? ".*test.*\.txt"

            "train_seed_pct": 0.05,
        },
        "tuning": {
            "n_classifiers": 3,
            "n_epochs": 1,
            "batch_size": 100,

>             "tuning_level": "domain",

Reviewer 3: I dont think we mention the method to get the "intent level" selection in the docs. Maybe we should have section on the different configs between domain-level and intent-level and also mentioning issues with the intent-level pertaining train/test splits.

Author: Added to the configuration notes.

            "tuning_strategies": [
                "LeastConfidenceSampling",
                "MarginSampling",
                "EntropySampling",
                "RandomSampling",
                "DisagreementSampling",
                "EnsembleSampling",
                "KLDivergenceSampling",
            ],
        },
        "tuning_output": {
            "save_sampled_queries": True,
            "aggregate_statistic": "accuracy",
            "class_level_statistic": "f_beta",
        },
        "query_selection": {
            "selection_strategy": "EntropySampling",
            "log_usage_pct": 1.00,
            "labeled_logs_pattern": train-augmented.txt,
            "unlabeled_logs_path": None,
        },
    }

We will breakdown the different components of this config in their respective steps.

The ``"output_folder"`` refers to a directory that will house all saved results from the active learning tuning and selection steps.

Step 3: Run Strategy Tuning and Evaluate Hyperparameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Before we jump into tuning, let's discuss the ``pre_tuning`` configurations. This section covers the data patterns that the active lerning pipeline ingests. The ``train_pattern`` is a regex field to provide the set of files across domains and intents that can be chosen as training files for the classifier. The ``test_pattern`` similarly represents the test files for the classfier that are used for iterative model evaluation and performance comparisons. The ``train_seed_pct`` is the percentage of training data that is used as the seed for training the initial model. This data is evenly sampled across domains and the rest is unsampled, to be used in the tuning process.

Reviewer 3: lerning -> learning

            "domain": "salary",
            "intent": "get_salary_employees"
        },
        {
            "unannotated_text": "get me the name donna brill.",
            "annotated_text": "get me the name {donna brill|name}.",
            "domain": "general",
            "intent": "get_info"
        },
        {
            "unannotated_text": "please get me the dob of julissa hunts.",
            "annotated_text": "please get me the {dob|dob} of {julissa hunts|name}.",
            "domain": "date",
            "intent": "get_date"
        }
    ]

If instead the logs were raw text and not annotated for domain and intent, then they can be collated into a single text file and passed into the configuration instead of the logs pattern as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    "query_selection": {
        "selection_strategy": "EntropySampling",
        "log_usage_pct": 1.00,
        "labeled_logs_pattern": None,
        "unlabeled_logs_path": "logs.txt",
    },

or using the flag ``--unlabeled_logs_path`` at runtime for the select command. The result would be a similar ``selected_queries.json`` file in the output directory.

> The selected queries can then be added back to the training data and can improve performance of the NLP classifiers.

Reviewer: "can improve _the_ performance"
